docs/architecture.md, before:

# Debugging Agents Architecture

This document outlines the high-level architecture of the Debugging Agents system, a platform designed to automate troubleshooting and debugging of complex production systems.

## System Overview

The Debugging Agents system is an LLM-powered automated debugging platform that:
- Collects contextual information about system issues
- Creates detailed debugging plans
- Executes those plans
- Analyzes results
- Generates comprehensive reports
- Integrates with external systems (JIRA, Loki, etc.)
- Preserves context across debugging sessions

![Architecture Diagram](../assets/architecture_diagram.png)

## Architecture Diagram (Interactive)

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "Debugging Agents System"
        UI["Streamlit UI"]
        CLI["CLI Interface"]
        CM["Crew Manager"]
        
        subgraph "External Integrations"
            JIRA["JIRA Client"]
            LOKI["Loki Client"]
            SLACK["Slack Handler"]
        end
        
        subgraph "LLM Integration"
            LF["LLM Factory"]
            OL["Ollama"]
            BR["AWS Bedrock"]
            OA["OpenAI"]
        end
        
        subgraph "CrewAI Agents"
            CB["Context Builder"]
            DPC["Debug Plan Creator"]
            EX["Executor"]
            AZ["Analyzer"]
            DG["Document Generator"]
        end
        
        subgraph "Data Sources"
            L["Logs"]
            M["Metrics"]
            T["Traces"]
            C["Configs"]
            JT["JIRA Tickets"]
        end
    end
    
    UI --> JIRA
    UI --> CM
    CLI --> CM
    CM --> LF
    
    LF --> OL
    LF --> BR
    LF --> OA
    
    CM --> CB
    CB --> DPC
    DPC --> EX
    EX --> AZ
    AZ --> DG
    
    L --> CB
    M --> CB
    T --> CB
    C --> CB
    JT --> CB
    
    JIRA --> JT
    LOKI --> L
```

## Core Components

### User Interfaces

#### Streamlit UI
- Web-based interface for JIRA ticket debugging
- BIM document generation
- Real-time analysis visualization
- Context history viewing
- Document download capabilities

#### CLI Interface
- Command-line interface for debugging
- Scriptable automation support
- Batch processing capabilities

### External Integrations

#### JIRA Integration
- Ticket data fetching
- Fallback to local documents
- Error handling and logging
- Context preservation

#### Loki Integration
- Log collection and analysis
- Real-time log streaming
- Error pattern detection

#### Slack Integration
- Alert notifications
- Report sharing
- Interactive debugging

### Crew Manager

The Crew Manager (`DebugCrew`) is the central orchestrator that:
- Initializes and manages specialized debugging agents
- Handles LLM provider configuration and integration
- Coordinates the debugging workflow
- Manages task execution and agent communication
- Supports both direct API calls and CrewAI integration

### Context Builder

The Context Builder manages debugging context:
- Collects and organizes system information
- Preserves context across sessions
- Supports multiple data sources
- Maintains context history
- Provides context-aware debugging

### LLM Factory

The LLM Factory provides a unified interface for different LLM providers:
- OpenAI (GPT-4, etc.)
- AWS Bedrock (Claude, etc.)
- Ollama (local models)
- Handles provider-specific configuration and API calls
- Manages environment variables and credentials

### CrewAI Agents

The system uses CrewAI for agent orchestration and collaboration:

#### Context Builder
- Aggregates system information from various sources
- Supports multiple log sources (Loki, local files)
- Creates comprehensive context for debugging

#### Debug Plan Creator
- Analyzes context using LLM
- Generates structured debugging plans
- Optimizes steps based on system state

#### Executor
- Implements debugging plans
- Manages command execution
- Handles errors and retries
- Supports both automated and interactive modes

#### Analyzer
- Interprets execution results
- Identifies root causes
- Generates recommendations
- Evaluates confidence levels

#### Document Generator
- Produces debugging reports
- Supports multiple formats (HTML, Markdown)
- Uses customizable templates
- Includes metrics and analysis

## Process Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor User
    participant UI as Streamlit UI
    participant JIRA as JIRA Client
    participant CB as Context Builder
    participant CM as Crew Manager
    participant LF as LLM Factory
    participant Agents as CrewAI Agents
    
    User->>UI: Enter JIRA Ticket ID
    UI->>JIRA: fetch_ticket()
    JIRA-->>UI: ticket_data
    
    UI->>CB: get_context()
    CB-->>UI: context_history
    
    UI->>CM: initialize_crew()
    CM->>LF: create_llm(provider)
    LF-->>CM: llm_instance
    
    CM->>Agents: initialize_agents(llm)
    
    loop For each agent
        CM->>Agents: create_task(agent)
        Agents-->>CM: task
    end
    
    CM->>Agents: run_tasks()
    Agents-->>CM: results
    
    CM->>CB: update_context()
    CB-->>CM: updated_context
    
    CM->>UI: return_results()
    UI->>User: display_report()
```

## Data Flow

1. **Issue Identification**: System receives JIRA ticket ID
2. **Ticket Data Collection**: JIRA client fetches ticket data
3. **Context Retrieval**: Context Builder loads existing context
4. **LLM Initialization**: Crew Manager configures appropriate LLM provider
5. **Agent Setup**: CrewAI agents are initialized with the LLM
6. **Context Collection**: Context Builder gathers system information
7. **Plan Creation**: Debug Plan Creator generates structured plan
8. **Execution**: Executor implements debugging steps
9. **Analysis**: Analyzer evaluates results and identifies causes
10. **Context Update**: Context Builder preserves new context
11. **Documentation**: Document Generator creates detailed report

## Technology Stack

### Core Technologies
- **Language**: Python 3.10+
- **Agent Framework**: CrewAI
- **UI Framework**: Streamlit
- **LLM Integration**: 
  - OpenAI API
  - AWS Bedrock
  - Ollama (local models)

### Dependencies
- **HTTP Client**: httpx
- **Configuration**: PyYAML
- **Logging**: Python standard logging
- **Documentation**: Markdown, HTML
- **JIRA Integration**: python-jira
- **Document Processing**: python-docx

### Development Tools
- **Type Checking**: Python type hints
- **Testing**: pytest
- **Documentation**: MkDocs
- **Code Quality**: black, isort, mypy, pylint

## Security Model

### API Key Management
- Environment variable-based configuration
- Support for AWS credentials
- Secure key storage recommendations

### Execution Safety
- Controlled command execution
- Error handling and validation
- Resource usage limits

### Data Protection
- Log redaction capabilities
- Configurable data retention
- Access control options

## Configuration

### JIRA Configuration
```yaml
jira:
  base_url: https://your-domain.atlassian.net
  api_token: your_api_token
  fallback_dir: data/test_data/jira
```

### LLM Configuration
```yaml
llm:
  provider: ollama  # or openai, bedrock
  model: deepseek-r1:8b
  temperature: 0.2
  api_base: http://localhost:11434  # for Ollama
```

### Logging Configuration
```yaml
logging:
  level: INFO
  handlers:
    - console
    - file
  format: "%(asctime)s - %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s"
```

### Agent Configuration
```yaml
agents:
  context_builder:
    enabled: true
    log_sources: ["loki", "files"]
  executor:
    timeout: 300
    max_retries: 3
```

## Deployment Options

### Local Development
- Run directly with Python
- Use Ollama for local LLM
- Local file system for storage
- Streamlit for UI

### Production Deployment
- Containerized deployment
- Cloud-based LLM providers
- Centralized logging
- Monitoring integration

### Hybrid Setup
- Mix of local and cloud components
- Flexible LLM provider selection
- Scalable agent deployment

## Extension Points

The system is designed with several extension points:

- **Custom Data Sources**: Add new integration points for logs, metrics, and other telemetry
- **Execution Plugins**: Support for custom debugging actions specific to different technologies
- **Report Templates**: Customizable document templates for different audiences
- **Custom Analyzers**: Specialized analysis modules for specific types of systems
- **UI Customization**: Extend Streamlit UI with additional features
- **Context Storage**: Implement different context storage backends

## References

- [API Reference](api_reference.md) - Detailed API documentation
- [Usage Guide](usage_guide.md) - How to use the debugging agents CLI

Commit message:

feat: Improve document generation UI and documentation - Add pandoc requirement and installation instructions - Update document section UI with format selector and download button - Improve architecture and usage documentation - Add base CSS template for UI styling

docs/architecture.md, after:

# Debugging Agents Architecture

This document outlines the high-level architecture of the Debugging Agents system, a platform designed to automate troubleshooting and debugging of complex production systems.

## System Overview

The Debugging Agents system is an LLM-powered automated debugging platform that:
- Collects contextual information about system issues
- Creates detailed debugging plans
- Executes those plans
- Analyzes results
- Generates comprehensive reports
- Integrates with external systems (JIRA, Loki, etc.)
- Preserves context across debugging sessions

![Architecture Diagram](../assets/architecture_diagram.png)

## Architecture Diagram (Interactive)

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "Debugging Agents System"
        UI["Streamlit UI"]
        CLI["CLI Interface"]
        CM["Crew Manager"]
        
        subgraph "External Integrations"
            JIRA["JIRA Client"]
            LOKI["Loki Client"]
            SLACK["Slack Handler"]
        end
        
        subgraph "LLM Integration"
            LF["LLM Factory"]
            OL["Ollama"]
            BR["AWS Bedrock"]
            OA["OpenAI"]
        end
        
        subgraph "CrewAI Agents"
            CB["Context Builder"]
            DPC["Debug Plan Creator"]
            EX["Executor"]
            AZ["Analyzer"]
            DG["Document Generator"]
        end
        
        subgraph "Data Sources"
            L["Logs"]
            M["Metrics"]
            T["Traces"]
            C["Configs"]
            JT["JIRA Tickets"]
        end
    end
    
    UI --> JIRA
    UI --> CM
    CLI --> CM
    CM --> LF
    
    LF --> OL
    LF --> BR
    LF --> OA
    
    CM --> CB
    CB --> DPC
    DPC --> EX
    EX --> AZ
    AZ --> DG
    
    L --> CB
    M --> CB
    T --> CB
    C --> CB
    JT --> CB
    
    JIRA --> JT
    LOKI --> L
```

## Core Components

### User Interfaces

#### Streamlit UI
- Web-based interface for JIRA ticket debugging
- BIM document generation with multiple format support (doc, pdf, markdown)
- Real-time analysis visualization
- Context history viewing
- Document download capabilities with:
  - Side-by-side format selector and download button
  - Format conversion using pandoc
  - Status messages and progress indicators

#### CLI Interface
- Command-line interface for debugging
- Scriptable automation support
- Batch processing capabilities

### External Integrations

#### JIRA Integration
- Ticket data fetching
- Fallback to local documents
- Error handling and logging
- Context preservation

#### Loki Integration
- Log collection and analysis
- Real-time log streaming
- Error pattern detection

#### Slack Integration
- Alert notifications
- Report sharing
- Interactive debugging

### Crew Manager

The Crew Manager (`DebugCrew`) is the central orchestrator that:
- Initializes and manages specialized debugging agents
- Handles LLM provider configuration and integration
- Coordinates the debugging workflow
- Manages task execution and agent communication
- Supports both direct API calls and CrewAI integration

### Context Builder

The Context Builder manages debugging context:
- Collects and organizes system information
- Preserves context across sessions
- Supports multiple data sources
- Maintains context history
- Provides context-aware debugging

### LLM Factory

The LLM Factory provides a unified interface for different LLM providers:
- OpenAI (GPT-4, etc.)
- AWS Bedrock (Claude, etc.)
- Ollama (local models)
- Handles provider-specific configuration and API calls
- Manages environment variables and credentials

### CrewAI Agents

The system uses CrewAI for agent orchestration and collaboration:

#### Context Builder
- Aggregates system information from various sources
- Supports multiple log sources (Loki, local files)
- Creates comprehensive context for debugging

#### Debug Plan Creator
- Analyzes context using LLM
- Generates structured debugging plans
- Optimizes steps based on system state

#### Executor
- Implements debugging plans
- Manages command execution
- Handles errors and retries
- Supports both automated and interactive modes

#### Analyzer
- Interprets execution results
- Identifies root causes
- Generates recommendations
- Evaluates confidence levels

#### Document Generator
- Produces debugging reports
- Supports multiple formats (HTML, Markdown)
- Uses customizable templates
- Includes metrics and analysis

## Process Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor User
    participant UI as Streamlit UI
    participant JIRA as JIRA Client
    participant CB as Context Builder
    participant CM as Crew Manager
    participant LF as LLM Factory
    participant Agents as CrewAI Agents
    
    User->>UI: Enter JIRA Ticket ID
    UI->>JIRA: fetch_ticket()
    JIRA-->>UI: ticket_data
    
    UI->>CB: get_context()
    CB-->>UI: context_history
    
    UI->>CM: initialize_crew()
    CM->>LF: create_llm(provider)
    LF-->>CM: llm_instance
    
    CM->>Agents: initialize_agents(llm)
    
    loop For each agent
        CM->>Agents: create_task(agent)
        Agents-->>CM: task
    end
    
    CM->>Agents: run_tasks()
    Agents-->>CM: results
    
    CM->>CB: update_context()
    CB-->>CM: updated_context
    
    CM->>UI: return_results()
    UI->>User: display_report()
```

## Data Flow

1. **Issue Identification**: System receives JIRA ticket ID
2. **Ticket Data Collection**: JIRA client fetches ticket data
3. **Context Retrieval**: Context Builder loads existing context
4. **LLM Initialization**: Crew Manager configures appropriate LLM provider
5. **Agent Setup**: CrewAI agents are initialized with the LLM
6. **Context Collection**: Context Builder gathers system information
7. **Plan Creation**: Debug Plan Creator generates structured plan
8. **Execution**: Executor implements debugging steps
9. **Analysis**: Analyzer evaluates results and identifies causes
10. **Context Update**: Context Builder preserves new context
11. **Documentation**: Document Generator creates detailed report

## Technology Stack

### Core Technologies
- **Language**: Python 3.10+
- **Agent Framework**: CrewAI
- **UI Framework**: Streamlit
- **LLM Integration**: 
  - OpenAI API
  - AWS Bedrock
  - Ollama (local models)

### Dependencies
- **HTTP Client**: httpx
- **Configuration**: PyYAML
- **Logging**: Python standard logging
- **Documentation**: Markdown, HTML
- **JIRA Integration**: python-jira
- **Document Processing**: python-docx

### Development Tools
- **Type Checking**: Python type hints
- **Testing**: pytest
- **Documentation**: MkDocs
- **Code Quality**: black, isort, mypy, pylint

## Security Model

### API Key Management
- Environment variable-based configuration
- Support for AWS credentials
- Secure key storage recommendations

### Execution Safety
- Controlled command execution
- Error handling and validation
- Resource usage limits

### Data Protection
- Log redaction capabilities
- Configurable data retention
- Access control options

## Configuration

### JIRA Configuration
```yaml
jira:
  base_url: https://your-domain.atlassian.net
  api_token: your_api_token
  fallback_dir: data/test_data/jira
```

### LLM Configuration
```yaml
llm:
  provider: ollama  # or openai, bedrock
  model: deepseek-r1:8b
  temperature: 0.2
  api_base: http://localhost:11434  # for Ollama
```

### Logging Configuration
```yaml
logging:
  level: INFO
  handlers:
    - console
    - file
  format: "%(asctime)s - %(name)s - %(levelname)s - %(message)s"
```

### Agent Configuration
```yaml
agents:
  context_builder:
    enabled: true
    log_sources: ["loki", "files"]
  executor:
    timeout: 300
    max_retries: 3
```

## Deployment Options

### Local Development
- Run directly with Python
- Use Ollama for local LLM
- Local file system for storage
- Streamlit for UI

### Production Deployment
- Containerized deployment
- Cloud-based LLM providers
- Centralized logging
- Monitoring integration

### Hybrid Setup
- Mix of local and cloud components
- Flexible LLM provider selection
- Scalable agent deployment

## Extension Points

The system is designed with several extension points:

- **Custom Data Sources**: Add new integration points for logs, metrics, and other telemetry
- **Execution Plugins**: Support for custom debugging actions specific to different technologies
- **Report Templates**: Customizable document templates for different audiences
- **Custom Analyzers**: Specialized analysis modules for specific types of systems
- **UI Customization**: Extend Streamlit UI with additional features
- **Context Storage**: Implement different context storage backends

## References

- [API Reference](api_reference.md) - Detailed API documentation
- [Usage Guide](usage_guide.md) - How to use the debugging agents CLI
