docs/usage_guide.md, before:

# Debugging Agents Usage Guide

This guide explains how to use the Debugging Agents system for automated troubleshooting and debugging.

## System Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.10 or higher
- Ollama (for local LLM) or access to other LLM providers
- JIRA access (for ticket integration)
- Loki (optional, for log collection)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-org/debugging-agents.git
cd debugging-agents
```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Configure environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

### Running the System

The system can be run in two modes:

#### 1. Integrated Mode (UI + Backend)
```bash
streamlit run streamlit_app.py
```
This starts both the UI and backend services together. The UI will be available at `http://localhost:8501`.

#### 2. Separate Mode
If you need to run the backend separately (e.g., for development or testing):

a) Start the backend:
```bash
python src/main.py
```

b) Start the UI in a separate terminal:
```bash
streamlit run streamlit_app.py
```

## Context Preservation

The system automatically preserves debugging context in two ways:

### 1. File-based Storage
- Contexts are stored in `data/contexts/` directory
- Each ticket's current context: `{ticket_id}_context.json`
- Context history: `{ticket_id}_history.json`
- Example structure:
```json
{
    "current_context": {
        "ticket_id": "PROJ-123",
        "timestamp": "2024-04-14T12:00:00",
        "logs": [...],
        "metrics": {...},
        "analysis": {...}
    },
    "history": [
        {
            "timestamp": "2024-04-14T11:00:00",
            "context": {...}
        }
    ]
}
```

### 2. In-memory Cache
- Contexts are cached in memory during the session
- Cache is cleared when the application restarts
- Used for quick access to recent contexts

## Using the System

### 1. JIRA Ticket Debugging

1. Open the Streamlit UI at `http://localhost:8501`
2. Enter a JIRA ticket ID (e.g., "PROJ-123")
3. Choose an action:
   - "Generate BIM Document": Creates a structured document
   - "Run Debug Analysis": Performs automated debugging

### 2. Context Management

The system automatically:
- Preserves context between debugging sessions
- Maintains history of previous contexts
- Updates context with new findings
- Provides context-aware debugging

### 3. Document Generation

The document section is always visible in the UI and provides:
1. A format selector dropdown (supports doc, pdf, and markdown)
2. A download button that becomes active once debugging is complete
3. Status messages indicating the current state of document generation

To generate and download a document:
1. Enter a valid JIRA ticket ID and start debugging
2. Select your desired format from the dropdown
3. Once debugging is complete, click the download button
4. The document will be generated in your chosen format

Note: Format conversion requires pandoc to be installed on your system.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **LLM Connection Issues**
   - Check Ollama is running: `curl http://localhost:11434/api/tags`
   - Verify API keys in `.env`

2. **JIRA Integration**
   - Ensure JIRA credentials are correct
   - Check network connectivity
   - Verify ticket access permissions

3. **Context Preservation**
   - Check `data/contexts/` directory exists
   - Verify file permissions
   - Monitor disk space

### Logs and Monitoring

- Application logs: `logs/debug_agent.log`
- Context files: `data/contexts/`
- Reports: `data/reports/`

## Advanced Usage

### Custom Context Management

You can customize context preservation by:

1. Modifying `ContextBuilder` class
2. Implementing custom storage backends
3. Adjusting cache settings

### Integration with Other Systems

The system can be extended to:
- Add new data sources
- Implement custom analyzers
- Create specialized reports

## Best Practices

1. **Context Management**
   - Regularly backup context files
   - Monitor context storage usage
   - Clean up old contexts periodically

2. **Performance**
   - Use appropriate time windows for data collection
   - Monitor memory usage with large contexts
   - Optimize query patterns

3. **Security**
   - Secure sensitive data in contexts
   - Implement proper access controls
   - Regularly rotate API keys

## Support

For issues or questions:
1. Check the documentation
2. Review logs in `logs/`
3. Contact the development team

Commit message:

Updated documentation and requirements to reflect pure Python document conversion

docs/usage_guide.md, after:

# Debugging Agents Usage Guide

This guide explains how to use the Debugging Agents system for automated troubleshooting and debugging.

## System Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.10 or higher
- Ollama (for local LLM) or access to other LLM providers
- JIRA access (for ticket integration)
- Loki (optional, for log collection)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-org/debugging-agents.git
cd debugging-agents
```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Configure environment variables:
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration
```

### Running the System

The system can be run in two modes:

#### 1. Integrated Mode (UI + Backend)
```bash
streamlit run streamlit_app.py
```
This starts both the UI and backend services together. The UI will be available at `http://localhost:8501`.

#### 2. Separate Mode
If you need to run the backend separately (e.g., for development or testing):

a) Start the backend:
```bash
python src/main.py
```

b) Start the UI in a separate terminal:
```bash
streamlit run streamlit_app.py
```

## Context Preservation

The system automatically preserves debugging context in two ways:

### 1. File-based Storage
- Contexts are stored in `data/contexts/` directory
- Each ticket's current context: `{ticket_id}_context.json`
- Context history: `{ticket_id}_history.json`
- Example structure:
```json
{
    "current_context": {
        "ticket_id": "PROJ-123",
        "timestamp": "2024-04-14T12:00:00",
        "logs": [...],
        "metrics": {...},
        "analysis": {...}
    },
    "history": [
        {
            "timestamp": "2024-04-14T11:00:00",
            "context": {...}
        }
    ]
}
```

### 2. In-memory Cache
- Contexts are cached in memory during the session
- Cache is cleared when the application restarts
- Used for quick access to recent contexts

## Using the System

### 1. JIRA Ticket Debugging

1. Open the Streamlit UI at `http://localhost:8501`
2. Enter a JIRA ticket ID (e.g., "PROJ-123")
3. Choose an action:
   - "Generate BIM Document": Creates a structured document
   - "Run Debug Analysis": Performs automated debugging

### 2. Context Management

The system automatically:
- Preserves context between debugging sessions
- Maintains history of previous contexts
- Updates context with new findings
- Provides context-aware debugging

### 3. Document Generation

After a successful debug analysis, you can download the BIM document in your preferred format:

1. Select your desired format from the Document Format dropdown:
   - **doc**: Microsoft Word document format
   - **pdf**: Portable Document Format

2. Click the "Download" button to save the report to your computer.

3. The document includes:
   - A summary of the debugging process
   - Issue analysis
   - Root cause determination
   - Recommended solutions

> **Note:** Format conversion is handled automatically using built-in Python libraries. No external dependencies are required for document conversion.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **LLM Connection Issues**
   - Check Ollama is running: `curl http://localhost:11434/api/tags`
   - Verify API keys in `.env`

2. **JIRA Integration**
   - Ensure JIRA credentials are correct
   - Check network connectivity
   - Verify ticket access permissions

3. **Context Preservation**
   - Check `data/contexts/` directory exists
   - Verify file permissions
   - Monitor disk space

### Logs and Monitoring

- Application logs: `logs/debug_agent.log`
- Context files: `data/contexts/`
- Reports: `data/reports/`

## Advanced Usage

### Custom Context Management

You can customize context preservation by:

1. Modifying `ContextBuilder` class
2. Implementing custom storage backends
3. Adjusting cache settings

### Integration with Other Systems

The system can be extended to:
- Add new data sources
- Implement custom analyzers
- Create specialized reports

## Best Practices

1. **Context Management**
   - Regularly backup context files
   - Monitor context storage usage
   - Clean up old contexts periodically

2. **Performance**
   - Use appropriate time windows for data collection
   - Monitor memory usage with large contexts
   - Optimize query patterns

3. **Security**
   - Secure sensitive data in contexts
   - Implement proper access controls
   - Regularly rotate API keys

## Support

For issues or questions:
1. Check the documentation
2. Review logs in `logs/`
3. Contact the development team
